(soft music)
As I've said many times before,
this is the time of Revelations.
Simply that truth is being revealed in all quarters of life.
There's no institution that is shielded from scrutiny now,
be it government, religion, or popular culture.
When Foster Gamble, an heir to the
Proctor and Gamble fortune, became aware of the
truth as to how the people of the planet have been
controlled by the ruling elite, he and his wife Kimberly
dedicated themselves to creating a cohesive film,
a story of human potential, the quashing of that potential,
and ending with a call for recovering our truth.
The film is called Thrive and has already
had more than two million views around the world.
It's a film whose time has finally come.
Well, first of all, Foster, I have to say
I'm so happy to be sitting here with you.
You're a busy man, your film is
tearing around the planet right now.
We were talking off camera, over two million
or nearly two million views--
Getting close.
And that's not even counting
what might be pirated. (laughs)
Well, that is counting, a lot of what
has been pirated on YouTube.
And so, obviously this message is
striking a chord, and the thing about it that's really,
I find fascinating, is that your demeanor,
the commitment to the film, the production values
and such have allowed you to take forward a message
that people up to, really this time, have
been somewhat resistant to hear.
Well, I wish that my wife Kimberly were able
to be here with me today because unfortunately,
fortunately for her, she's attending a birth of
a grandchild, but we have been a team all along in this,
and I attribute so much of the tone and the success
of Thrive to her relentlessly and so gently
bringing in the feminine energy, and just teaching
me how to be confident in what we know about
the way out for humanity, and then relaying
the information in a way that really
honors people's intelligence, and at the same time,
gives them their own emotional space for
whatever comes up, rather than trying to force
my passion on them or try to scare them
into action, or something like that,
and it's really working, especially
for women and for young people.
Women and young people,
that's a growing demographic with the film?
Well, it's a particularly unusual one for some
of the information that we cover,
especially in relation to conspiracy
and some of the science and so forth.
I'm loving seeing how broad an audience is taking
in everything from new energy science to UFOs
to conspiracy to the real principles of liberty,
and then wanting to focus all that on solutions.
It's really reaffirming for me as to the incredible
intelligence and power of the human spirit
when it's treated with respect.
Yes, because again, a lot of these
subjects are intrinsically a little frightening to people,
especially if they haven't already
been familiar with these topics.
And we're talking about a lot of people
I've interviewed on CMN that are prominent,
such as David Icke and others in this film,
are sharing the realities that they have assessed
throughout time which are, these are
some harsh realities, which is, as you said
in the film that there are a handful of individuals
who do not want to see humanity thrive.
We're going to anyway, but who do not wish
to see humanity thrive, and we have been
under that spell for awhile now.
And can you talk a little bit about what it was
in you that wanted to reveal that story
to people in this kind and gentle way?
Well, when I was in college, I was introduced
by a friend to meditation for the first time,
and I had a sesshin with a zen master
and I started meditating, and I was enjoying
going deeper and deeper in, but the deeper I got,
the more I heard this distant kind of rumbling sound.
First of all, I thought it maybe was the resonance
of the cosmos or my kundalini arising,
but the more I meditated, it became clearer and clearer
it was the wailing of the suffering of humanity.
And as I let that in, it was really hard, because I was
enjoying being an athlete and learning in school
and being outdoors and so forth, and all
of a sudden, I'm hearing this inside me.
And finally what I did was I made a commitment to
dedicate my life to relieving that suffering,
whether I was feeling it directly in the moment or not,
to relieve that suffering of which we're all a part,
and when I made that commitment, that sound went away
and was replaced by just a sense of peace in the meditation.
And the rest of my life has been a lot about
trying to figure out what is in the way of our thriving,
and what can we do about removing that
because I have no doubt that life
wants to work, you see it everywhere.
And there was really, this has been a mystical
process for you really, from the beginning.
I mean, as you show in the film, you had
an event happen when you were a young fellow,
just a young teenager, but then after that mystical event
which I'm sure many people, if they haven't already
seen the film will be going, they will be seeing it
right after this, you were driven, I love it as you
spoke about in one interview, you were driven to
create this thing and you kept going into the labs,
it was a physics lab in school in trying to
create this thing, but you didn't even know what
you were trying to create, and you used Close
Encounters of the Third Kind where they're
building the mountain with mashed potatoes (chuckles).
And talk about this internal spiritual drive
that happened after that, too.
Well, I think when I look back on it,
what happened was as I was kind of coasting along
in my early life, and then did these duck and cover drills,
ducking under my desk as an elementary school kid,
protecting my head as if that's gonna save me from
a nuclear explosion, that was really the turning point
where I thought, "OK, maybe the big folks don't
"really know what's going on, or they don't have
"my best interest in mind anyway."
So, I think that that traumatized me in some way,
so I think I was living with that fear and then,
and I was looking into, what is energy?
How can we relate to energy in a safe way?
And I think that that inner question for me started
to be answered with that experience on the school bus
because I'm riding along looking at the light blinking
through the trees, and suddenly I'm shown this gorgeous
whirlpool vortex, and then there's an atom in it,
there's a nucleus in the middle and these things whipping
around the outside, and then it transforms into a solar
system with the sun and the planets going around,
and I thought, "Huh, that's kind
"of an interesting correlation."
But then all of a sudden, my whole body was taken
over with this feeling of, "I'm that pattern too."
You know, roughly halfway between the scale of something
as small as an atom and as big as a solar system.
And that's what really hooked me is I need to
find out what that means, 'cause I really had no idea.
As above, so below.
Yeah.
I mean, this is
the, you saw the dynamic firsthand.
Yeah.
And then talk about this thing that
you were trying to create in the labs, that you
were driven to create, but you didn't know why.
Yeah, well, I was an athlete and I would play drums
in the rock and roll band and everything, but any time
that I could free up, I would go up to the
physics lab 'cause I love physics and
science, and I would just be building.
And ultimately, and people would say, "What are you doing?"
And I said, "I don't really know, but I'm building
"a sculpture, and I'll let you know when it's done."
Ultimately, I had gotten all these blocks of glass
that refract light, and I had arranged them in such
a way that I bent the light from a light generator
so that it went around in this big circle and came back
and basically is the ouroboros, it ate its own tale.
So all of a sudden, I had a ring of light floating in space.
And when I got that, it's like, "Oh, that's it."
And people were like, "It's really
"beautiful, but what is it?"
And I said, "I don't know, but that's it."
Now I can look back, you know, 35, 40 years ago,
I was being shown how to manifest the fundamental
energy pattern of the life force in the universe,
which is this toroidal vortex.
Yes, and that's represented throughout
the film in an absolutely beautiful way.
I've got to complement you, the
production values are just stunning.
Well, thank you, I'll pass that on to Liquid Buddha
Studios and Westwood Creek Productions,
just two teams of really wonderful creative artists
who were able to manifest these visions that I've been
trying to talk about for decades, but suddenly when
people can see it, the main thing is not only
do people say, "Oh, that looks really beautiful,"
they go, "It feels resonate with me, somehow I know
"that pattern," and of course they do, because
every atom, every molecule, the electromagnetic field
around our body, it's all this torus shape.
So, it's actually, they're recognizing who we are.
And recognizing in themselves that yes, that kind
of innate recognition of our own internal life force.
Yes, but it's a really cool thing to me is that it's
the only pattern that nature uses to sustain a healthy
system at every scale throughout
the universe, as far as we can tell.
So, given that our evolutionary imperative is to figure
out how not to blow ourselves up and how not
to destroy the planet that's nurturing us,
it's really good news that we're being shown,
actually everywhere we look, what the
blueprint for sustainability is.
But we're just learning how to see it, it turns out
we've been shown it by ancient cultures, we're being
shown it by advanced cultures in crop circles
and so forth, it's emerging in physics, it's emerging
in spirituality, so we're beginning to recognize the
blueprint of how we can align our economic systems,
our media systems, our energy access systems,
even our consciousness systems with this fundamental
pattern because it's who we are.
And you're talking about
the work of many visionaries here.
One of them is Nassim Haramein, who I think we
all adore, Nassim, and what he's
brought to the forefront as well.
And you are a visionary, you've been having these
visions since you were a child, you've been in a position
to be able to commit and dedicate yourself to finding
solutions as a result of this, but when we go,
when we're looking at these visions, oftentimes
it's not just us that is involved in a vision, oftentimes
there may be guidance, for example.
You even go into the subject of extraterrestrials
and extraterrestrial presence on earth in Thrive.
What is your own experience with guidance,
other-worldly forces, and so forth that have
all helped you come to this more mature
view of where humanity's going?
Well, thanks for the question, it's a really profound
inquiry to me that has been so touching for me
and my path, and something for which I'm so grateful.
An example is that, I have been, as Nassim was,
gonna be independently obsessed with figuring out how
nature manifests spirit into the material world.
What are the dynamics, the geometries
and so forth by which that works?
And when I started really deeply inquiring into that,
and getting specific with my questions, I invited
Nassim into The Sequoia Symposium that some of us
created, this think tank that went on for three and
a half years, and during that whole process, the particular
thing that I was trying to do was figure out, if you
could fly down into an atom, what would it look like?
Because we're all, that's what we're made of,
and as I was studying the geometry of nature, I came to
the conclusion that these two fundamental patterns
that I talk about in the film, the torus, the whirlpool
shape, and the vector equilibrium, which is the mother
shape of all geometries, that if those two were
really fundamental, then they must be there
at the atomic level, so I started doing modeling with
a team of physicists and computer scientists and
so forth, started modeling according to 16
postulates that we had come up with, what the periodic
table might look like according to these principles.
And it turns out that it matches exactly the number
of protons and neutrons in every
shell and explains why and so forth.
But the really interesting part to me was that I would
go along and do as much as I could do intellectually,
and then I would just hit a wall, I couldn't think
anymore, I would have to get up from my desk and I would
need to just go for a walk in the woods, or I would need
to dance or put on music or meditate.
Sometimes before I would go to sleep at night, I would
ask the question, "What about the
"fourth shell and the inner rings?"
And this and that, because I just couldn't do that
with my rational mind, and I have a little tape recorder
that I've carried for the last 15 years, because I started
getting messages in response, and I told the universe,
"If you give me the information that I need,
"not only about the atom, but actually how to help
"get us out of this lethal predicament that we're in,
"I will record everything that seems coherent and I
"will get it out to the world," and
that's a lot of what Thrive is.
I have hundreds of binders that contain, not only
what I figured out and learned from other people,
but also the information, I would wake up sometimes
in the morning and I'd look at my recorder and
there were 15 messages that I had woken up and recorded
that I was being given in, what's, I was involved in
brainwave science for a long time, more in the
alpha-theta state, when you're aware but not
pushing your thoughts, so you can actually receive.
So, I'm clear from both my science and from my spiritual
pursuits that what we think of as ourselves, this body
or this particular personality or whatever, is simply
part of an infinite continuum, like as you said,
"As above, so below," and as we learn to clear our channel,
which is basically just relaxing our body, letting
the emotions flow clearly and then both opening
and focusing the mind simultaneously, gateways open,
and then if you don't violate the process, you can ask for
guidance in all different aspects of your life,
and you know, most people hearing this will be
going, "Yeah, I know that from my own personal experience."
And I think this is the whole next frontier is not only
out in space and the other beings that we're meeting there,
but also in inner space, and those two are really one,
because I think even the outer space travel and most
of our ET contact is primarily going on, as Jacques Vallée
says, at simply different frequency levels, most of
the contact that we're having is in consciousness,
not metal ships that have necessarily come
light years from somewhere else.
Yes, that makes perfect sense, we're a
multi-dimensional being with another part that is
infinite and infinitely connected, so of course
that's where we're going to be making out greatest contact,
however, that's carried a huge giggle factor up until now.
And not only that, so has the work on the conspiracy
carried a big giggle factor among the population at large,
and yet here you come, it's almost as though a red
carpet has been laid before you for your efforts
to come in, modulate the messages in such a way
that neither are giggle factors in this process
you've gone through in your film,
the project that's come from that.
Well, I'm glad to hear that, because that took a lot
of work and a lot of resolve, because I can't tell you
how many people told us, "OK, well you can do
"conspiracy, but you can't do UFOs," or,
"You can do free energy, but you can't really do liberty."
On and on, and fortunately my wife and I were absolutely
100% on the line from the beginning that we were here
to tell the whole story, whatever that meant, and if we
weren't willing to do, in our privileged position
where we didn't have to hold on to a job and we
were beyond caring more about our reputations than
the truth, if we weren't gonna come out with that, who was?
Exactly.
And we would rather come out with the truth, even if
it was risky or if people were gonna make fun of us,
than to go cower on a beach with a Mai Tai somewhere
while the world that our children and grandchildren
are gonna try to grow up in is being destroyed,
so I'm happy to say that our whole team came around
as we were working on it to realize that when you
hear the pieces all as a part of a whole, it's kind of
like the pieces of the glass making up the ring, you
can step back and go, "Ah, now I see, that connects
"the dots for me, and it makes more sense than
"the story I was told in school, the story I was
"told in church, or by the corporate media."
And now, with the internet and with people communicating
as instantaneously and honesly as they are, just more
and more of the truth is emerging rather than just a
fashionable leaning, or a popular political stand,
or something like that, and that to me is as
thrilling as anything I can imagine.
Absolutely, and you've been working on this,
you worked on it for a good six years, right?
Eight years on the film, a lifetime on the research.
Yes, a lifetime on the research, and things
have changed during that period of time.
When you first started researching the film, we were,
in mass, in a different consciousness.
Much has happened, I think that the fact that we've had
so many difficulties economically globally has certainly
softened, beaten down, whatever you want to call it,
people to the point where new questions are starting
to emerge, and a willingness to look at things maybe
that we weren't willing to look at as a species has
risen, so it seems like the timing on this has been
impeccable, but what have you seen
even in the last six months or so?
I know off camera we were talking, you said you
expected the first six months of release to be about
people throwing stones and darts at you because of
the conspiracy elements of it, that hasn't happened.
So, let's just set that part aside, what have you
seen emerging just the last six months and over
the release of the film that is new energetically?
Well, there were many times that we wished the film
were already out in terms of things that were happening
in the world, in terms of how much it was costing,
in terms of what hard work it was, and then we would
be reminded again and again that we're part of a timing
that's so much greater than our rational minds.
And then when it actually came time to launch, it was
so touching to see that first of all,
what we had been working on wasn't irrelevant.
Some people thought, "Well, is
"this film still gonna be relevant?"
Now, it's not only more relevant than ever, but it
was more understandable than ever because people's
lives are collapsing, the financial situation is collapsing,
so people could recognize what we were saying in its
correlation to daily life, but then, our biggest time
of risk was between when we put the trailer out where
people knew what we were gonna be divulging,
and when the actual toothpaste was out of the tube with
the film, and that's just when Occupy started happening.
And for us to see that, 'cause we talk in the film
and on the website about the importance of critical
mass actions, it's a critical part of making a
significant change, and then to see that it was
already happening, it was happening in relation
to the financial world as well as other things, and that
it was the first global movement in history, was
just, Kimberly and I just went, "Oh, thank you,"
because we just felt so not alone with it, you know?
Everybody was waking up to this, and we can simply
offer, hopefully a helpful piece in there.
And then my biggest concern was we did an internet
release in 10 languages because we wanted this
to go as broad across the globe as possible,
and so that it couldn't get shut down in frivolous
lawsuits, or something like that.
And, so my biggest concern was that the internet
would be shut down or taken over.
You know, the corporations have tried, the government tried,
the UN has tried, fortunately it hasn't worked so far.
But I was still concerned about it, and then I get this
email from the Occupy movement with their first trailer.
I mean, not Occupy, sorry, Anonymous.
And where they're describing what they stand for
and how good they are at what they do and what
they're willing to do to protect
freedom and truth in the world.
And again, it just made me cry to realize how
interconnected we are and how consciousness itself
is emerging, the planetary immune system is kicking in.
And then, I was talking to a friend of mine who's one
of the media leaders for Occupy
LA, and she said they had just
been visited by some of the Occupy
people who were very enthusiastic about what they were
doing, and assuring them of optimal protection.
And she said, "Well, do you know about Thrive?
"We're showing Thrive in our media tents," and so forth,
and they said, "Yeah, we've checked out Thrive,
"it's the real deal and we've got their backs also."
So, it's a very moving time, I think for all of us
to realize that those who are willing to stand for
true freedom and integrity in our systems and so forth
are not only not alone, we outnumber those who
are trying to perpetrate the agenda against that
by at least a million to one, and we've got truth, and
we've got love, and we've got the life force on our side.
Interestingly, on Coast to Coast a couple
of nights ago, the guest was Alex Jones,
and Alex Jones was even saying this.
You know, he has not been particularly optimistic
about the future of humanity, as anyone who has followed
him knows, but he was even saying that a critical time
seems to be approaching where there are more good
people at the higher levels that are
working on behalf of humanity, than not.
Well, that was huge, simply because it's Alex Jones
saying it, and so many people are upset and angry that
follow that particular perception of what life in the
future is going to be like, you know,
FEMA camps and everything else.
Personally, I'm feeling all of those
potentials having melted away, almost.
Not to say we don't have a tough time
coming, there's still gonna be bumps.
Let's go to, you yourself came from a family that is
privileged, you had the advantages of privilege.
You have been among other very high-profile families
who also have had the advantage of privilege, and
one thing we're seeing here just with you sitting here,
and we're hearing rumor of a new economic developments
underneath the scene, is that there's this change of
heart that's taking a place at the very, very highest
levels of influence and wealth, and this
I think gives a lot of people comfort.
Can you talk about it from your own perspective?
You also know some of the Rockefellers and so on,
and what you're seeing in these families,
the transition that's happening.
Well, it's a really exciting time, and you know,
when I was in the science world, they used to say
that the scientific paradigm, in physics in particular,
moved along one funeral at a time.
Yes, exactly. (chuckles)
And I don't think we need to wait for funerals, but
what I'm seeing and hearing in talking to some members
of these families, some of them, I've known quite
well for years, and some of them, I'm just meeting,
is that they are aware of what their ancestors have
done, they're in many cases ashamed of it and
embarrassed about it, and really looking into the
challenge of, what can we do to turn that legacy?
It takes a lot to turn a giant ocean liner, and this old
financial apparatus is that, and yet, when I talk in
the movie about some of these families, the Rothschilds
and the Rockefellers and the Morgans and so forth,
I want to be very clear that that doesn't mean,
I'm not making a generalization about anybody because
of their name or their family, it's up to each one
of us to look at what opportunities
do we have, what is our legacy?
And then, what can we do with it?
And some of these people have been approaching me
about having constructive conversations and even
televising these conversations about,
how can we strategically be just the
flip-side of the old secret societies?
How can we have strategic meetings about how
to free up the global financial systems?
And how to return justice and
ecology to our lives?
And then actually let the whole world
be a part of those conversations.
So, that's one of the things that I'm most excited
about because with the current technologies like this,
anybody on the planet, anywhere practically, can be
a part of this conversation of the transition to the
world that we all can sense is possible.
And I'm more optimistic than ever that we are
definitely able to make that transition.
I'm convinced, like the song in Thrive says,
that we already have what it takes the thrive,
now we just need to make it happen.
I feel exactly as you do, and I'm
very excited about this notion of conversation.
Off camera, you were calling it a type of reconciliation
that happens publicly, which is
something that really lights my jets.
The notion of getting factions on all sides around
the table to have an honest and open discussion publicly
about these crossover challenges.
This is a huge transitional period, and I think everybody
has their own idea of what needs to lead the way
when you're in transition, I don't know that
anyone knows the whole story or truth yet.
However, you've been trying to put some pieces together
as action plans, and again, with
some of the new economy that may
be emerging, it appears it may
be emerging now, we're looking at something that is
moving more toward the individual rather than
the corporation or the government.
Is this where you're going with it as well?
Well, in my observation of the incredible power
that the inside of the torus has, if we realize
what the torus is in nature, skilled scientists
can build devices which actually access this so-called
free energy right out of space in a clean and safe way.
That's pretty exciting.
That just comes out of the recognition
of, how does nature work?
My observation of the, where is
the wholeness at the human level, is it's not the group.
The group is an agglomeration of individuals,
and if somebody starts violating you or me,
we can know right away our wholeness is being violated.
And it has been, I think, a trick of the elite
for centuries to say whether it's the royalty,
or it's the church, or it's the feudal lords, or it's
the fascist leaders, or the communist leaders,
or even the democratic leaders, to put the power
in the hands of a few and say, "For the sake
"of the good, we're gonna violate individual
"rights," simply doesn't work.
Throughout history, that's always the seeds of tyranny.
So, what we're really looking to do in the Thrive
movement is try to offer helpful guidance in terms of
solutions that are not politically based, but instead,
based on principles, and what are those principles?
And for me and after my whole life's quest, the core
principle, for my thinking, that it can enable us to
actually make it as a species, is what's called
non-aggression, or non-violation.
I don't get to hurt you or take your stuff,
and you don't get to do that to me either.
And if that's true, and that's the one thing I've
found that everybody agrees to, whether or not
they want to violate someone else, nobody wants
to be violated themselves against their will.
So, if that actually is the key navigating insight
for humanity, then we need to look again at all our systems,
starting with the government system, because virtually
every government is based on the involuntary taking
of your taxes, whether you like it or not.
And that starts leading to crony capitalism and
mores of aggression, and you know, police
state, even internally and so forth.
And in the 20th century alone, what the state as an
entity was responsible for over 200 million deaths
and the majority of those were within state boundaries.
So, there's a lot of evidence that's not the right track
even though we've been taught that
the government is gonna save us.
Democracy is way better than those other systems,
but in my observation, it's still what's called
a collectivist system, that gives rights to
a few that other individuals don't have.
So, a few end up with a monopoly on money, and
a monopoly on force, and that's a lethal combination.
It's taken us 200 years, well especially the last 100
years since the Federal Reserve came in with
the monopoly on money, but it has led to
the brink of tyranny, we're on the verge
of a, not only a national but a global police
state as we describe in the movie.
And for those who were doubting that, the recent
enactment that Obama signed on New Year's Eve
of the National Defense Authorization Act,
if people check that out, you'll see that's kind of
the last nail in the coffin of establishing
the legality of a police state.
And then Joe Lieberman has just proposed
this, what is the EEA,
it's the, is it the
Enemy Extradition Authorization?
I can't remember the middle word right now,
but anyway, it's a bill that allows people suspected
of any terrorism support to lose their citizenship
and be taken out of the country.
So, it's a companion bill that basically allows the
state, just by calling you a suspected terrorist.
And simply even having a conversation like this
comes under the category of dissident with the
government plan, they can now legally take you away
without any cause, they can detain you indefinitely
without a trial, they can even take you off to
another country or assassinate you, and that's all legal.
So clearly, we're on the brink of something that has
happened before in history, but
people thought it can't happen here.
Well, it is happening here and it's time for people
to wake up, and as people are waking up, you know,
Henry Ford said, "If people really understood the
"banking system, there'd be a riot
"in the street before morning."
Yes, famous quote.
And Occupy is now writing this, you know,
driving here today, I was listening to ABC then
CBS and then CNN on the radio, and the three
main reports that I heard was first of all,
the senate changed their mind on the SOPA Act,
which was basically going to take over the internet.
The people's pressure did matter.
Then Occupy has shut down Wells Fargo
and Bank of America in San Francisco, completely
nonviolently, but they're getting the attention
of even the major networks to have people ask,
"What are these banks actually doing?"
And then, what was it, oh yeah, then there's a,
Occupy also has a simultaneous movement going on
in Washington in front of the Supreme Court,
again completely nonviolently, challenging Citizens United,
which basically officially turned the
government over to the corporations.
So, it is emerging all over the planet, and the key
thing is it's nonviolent, it has to stay nonviolent.
World War III is already on, it's just mostly economic,
and if people realize that, then that's where we
get our leverage, because we can, in the same way
Martin Luther King did, the same way that Nelson Mandela
did, the same way that Ghandi did, we can use
nonviolent withdrawing of participation.
If we simply remove our money, remove our energy,
refuse to participate in these systems, they all
depend on us for their survival, all of these power centers
of the military, the multinational corporations,
the media, the government, and so they will need
to disappear or turn to go with natural human incentive.
So, it's actually, even though it's probably the most
dangerous time in human history, given our weapons
of mass destruction and so forth, but it's also,
I can't imagine a more exciting time to be alive
because we get to participate in turning this in a direction
that our grandchildren can say, "Yeah, you know,
"our ancestors stood up for this
"when they saw what was going on."
And actually, if you look at it from
a purely energetic point of view, it makes sense.
Here you have these incredibly dark agendas that
are being sealed and put into place, but for every
action, there's an equal and opposite reaction,
and the reaction to that is this incredible source
of initiative and light that's pouring in to answer it.
And right now, it seems to be a consensus that the tide
of those individuals, of you, of the Occupy
Wall Street, young people of us, and many,
many, many others, is really the tide that's turning
and going to overcome the darker agenda.
We talked off camera, there's this incredible feeling
of, I don't like the word hope,
hope's not a good word--
But it's grounded hope.
Grounded hope that is now
becoming very visceral, just that feeling that you wake
up with in the morning where those things that
dogged us even a year or two ago at large,
that energy seems to be dissipating.
Are you feeling that as well?
Absolutely, and I am so thrilled
every day to be literally getting hundreds of communications
from all over the world, first of all just thanking us
for Thrive because it wraps the picture together
so people can understand it very quickly, and in a
package where they can feel safe giving it to their
spouse, giving it to their work partners and so forth,
spreading it in their community, bringing people in.
So, people are catching on very
fast to what's actually going on.
What I'm most excited about, and the energy that
you're talking about that's emerging, in Occupy
and the Arab Spring all over the
place, is this energy for solutions?
And you asked a minute ago about this template that
we're offering into the emerging movement right now,
and let me say a little bit about that, because this
is what I think is most highly leveraged right now,
is that one of the things that we offer in the film
is what we call the sector navigator, and it's basically
a whole systems device that has 12 spheres
representing all the sectors, major sectors of human
endeavor, and then the center one is world view,
because we see everything that we do through our world view.
And this is the geometry that Bucky Fuller identified
as the core structure of nature,
it's what stabilizes the system.
So, if we can actually realize that all of these areas,
media and education and health and science
and governings and so forth, if we can realize
those are all part of a whole, and if we can have them
working in harmony with one another,
we've got a shot at turning the thing around
in a way that I haven't seen previously.
And we actually had a test case of this several years ago.
I live in Santa Cruz and they started with these planes
coming out of Monterey and spraying toxic chemicals--
For the brown, some kind of brown
fruit fly, or--
Light brown
apple moth, and they wouldn't tell us what
was in it, there was no damage coming from this moth,
and so I got very suspicious, and I started following the
money, and it turned out that it was a George Bush
personal earmark that went then through Homeland
Security and through the USDA and the CEFA, and then
authorized the spraying of the most progressive communities
in the country nine months a year for up to 10 years
with this toxic chemical.
It was awful.
So fortunately, we got together and used this
very sector model so that the lawyers and the
artists and the media experts and so forth all came
together, and knew that they could contribute what they
were passionate about and what they did best,
and know that the other parts were gonna be handled also.
And then we had a toroidal communication system where
the teams could send representatives into a steering
committee in the middle and then the
information would keep coming back out.
So, it was really a toroidal rather than a pyramidal system.
Long short of it, it worked, and within
six months, we were able to stop that.
So, what we're offering now is to invite people to use
that same model, so when you're looking at the vastness
of the challenge of turning this around, and if you have
the thought, "Well, what can I do as one person?"
If you identify your own coordinates, so first of all, we
invite people to write down, what is your purpose in life?
So that you can line everything with that, and then second,
look at the sector navigator and ask,
what's the sector that I'm most drawn to?
Is it media, is it education, is it economics?
Whatever, and then ask yourself, what's the level
of engagement that I'm most drawn to?
Is it meeting immediate needs in a soup kitchen or,
you know, Doctors Without Borders, or something like that,
or is it making systemic change?
Or is it actually working on the consciousness shift
from which systemic change comes, which then
improves the life of everyone on the ground?
And when you identify which one you're most drawn to,
then you can relax into, "OK, it's enough to just
"do my part because the other levels are gonna be handled."
So many activists just burn themselves
out by trying to do it all.
Then on our website, we have specific actions that we
recommend and also tools as to how to take care of
yourself emotionally, how to resolve conflict
in groups, and how to keep your life in
balance while you're moving forward.
So, what we're trying to do is provide a framework
and tools that can empower people to self-create,
because Kimberly and I have no interest whatsoever in
trying to lead or centralize power over some movement.
It's never worked, it would be offensive to even try
and that's not what nature does.
When you go into the woods and try to find
the boss, you know, good luck.
And so what we envisioned is actually what's
happening, it's so moving that there are already
hundreds of Thrive groups in communities,
in cities, in countries around the world that
are simply self-creating, and they're engaged as
so, what are the principles, what are the
organizational tools, and so forth?
And then we're operating as a hub to keep them in
communication with one another and so forth,
and in association with Occupy and you know,
so many other groups that are doing such great work.
So, what I'm seeing is a decentralized self-creating
emerging movement, and to my mind, that's unstoppable.
And that's how nature works.
Exactly, that's why.
Yes, absolutely, and to me,
as beautiful as the film is and as well done as
the film is, it's really the aftermath
of the film that is creating the change.
The power is in the action that people are inspired
to by the film, and as you just said a moment ago,
and you say in the film, it's this notion that
individuals, I just wrote a blog about it, I think
yesterday, about having opportunity here to begin
dreaming again, to find their own passion.
What is it that I can contribute?
Because it lights my jets to contribute that.
And that goes for beyond just the Thrive movement,
that goes into revitalizing entire populations again.
Exactly.
This is the period whereas Catherine Austin Fitts says
in the movie, where we're learning how to spend
Monday through Friday making money saving the planet,
and then on the weekend, you go to the beach.
Instead of doing things you don't want to do
Monday through Friday and then trying to scramble
to save the planet, meanwhile burning yourself out.
If we look at the investments that have actually
been surviving the best, not counting the banks, which
are being propped up by false foundation, there are
actually the companies through people like Catherine
Austin Fitts and Paul Hawken and others who have researched
this and disclosed the companies that are actually
operating in a way that takes care of people, takes care
of the environment and creates products which serve
people, those are the ones that are
actually doing the best, even in the financial collapse.
So, it bodes well for the future where we can actually
exchange value in an open way while healing.
And it sounds like free energy, or
nearly free energy is right on the horizon anyway.
This is popping up all over and we all know the
stories, I've dealt with people, you've dealt with people
who've had their labs broken into and smashed up,
their patents either rejected or stolen outright,
so we know the journey they've been through,
it's been a dangerous one to be an innovator
in the world of energy, but it seems even there,
we're now starting to see the light shining through
and even from, again, intuitive sources from beyond,
the word keeps coming, you're right on the cusp of it,
it's right around the corner now, so they're not gonna
be able to keep their fingers in those dikes
and plugging those possibilities any longer, it sounds like.
This is the strongest, single reaction that
we're getting from all over the planet in relation
to Thrive is, what can I do to help
that free energy become available?
Because on a very practical level, obviously it would
change the economic situation, the access to heat
and electricity to cook with and so forth,
just dramatically and very quickly.
And a lot of people still think, and understandably,
I appreciate really healthy skepticism, a lot of
people think, "Well, you know, it couldn't be
"real, it must be a bunch of hoaxers."
Well, in my research, I've never seen the government
crack down brutally on hoaxers, they don't
bother unless it's real, and I have had the good
fortune to visit some of these labs, I've seen
these devices working, then I hear later on the labs
were raided and the people were shut down,
they were gag ordered, and it's really unsafe to do
that right now, and that's the only reason we don't have it.
However, as Brian O'Leary says in the movie, this is
in hundreds of labs all over the world.
More and more people are learning how to do it,
and the people have been approaching us,
scientists have been sending us great papers, inventors have
been saying, "I appreciate your courage in bringing
"this out, here's what I've been working on,"
and potential investors or philanthropists are approaching
us saying, "We want to be a part of that critical mass
"action," and we're not gonna make any moves in
that direction until there's enough science, enough
technology, and enough money to actually
bring it out safely in cooperation with
lots of groups all over the world.
But that too, is unstoppable because it's real,
it's true, it's needed, and the people who are suppressing
that are of very few, and they're getting exposed.
Yeah, they're getting exposed,
they can't hold that back any longer.
Let me ask you this, if you were to just look
forward a little into the future and you are a visionary,
and you've obviously spent a lot of
time doing this, what is your utopian
view of our our coming reality look like?
And even though the word utopian isn't appropriate
anymore, maybe it simply is just what will be.
Yeah, I love thinking that way, and one of the reasons
that I portrayed some of that in the film is that
I have been aware of the agenda's effort to dumb people
down, discourage them, make them afraid, put them in debt
and so forth, because they're easier to control that way.
But the very first filming that we did for Thrive was we
interviewed 20 young people, along with Vandana Shiva
and Elisabet Sahtouris, at an ecology
conference near Santa Barbara.
And this was a conference of young, bright college
people, all of whom are interested
in restoring the ecology of the planet.
I interviewed 20 of them and asked them
a couple of questions, one of which was,
"Tell me your vision of how it could be on planet earth."
And out of 20 educated, motivated people, only
two of them could come up with a positive
vision for the planet for the future.
And I was shocked, and that's when
I realized, "Wow, this is really needed."
And so my vision of what it could be like
is all based around wholeness, all you have to do
is take the word wholeness, which is symbolize
as the torus because that's how nature does it,
and then just apply it to every system.
You apply that to an economic system and all
of a sudden, you've got honest money,
you've got honest trades, you've got a true free
market in sound currency and that type of thing.
I worked with Catherine and with Bill Still
and Hazel Henderson and others working out the numbers
on what it would be like, and very quickly they estimate
that it would be between three and 10 times
the amount of assets and income that all of you
have right now working as hard as you do.
You'd have three to 10 times as much as you
have currently working the same or less.
So, first of all, picture the change in your life,
debts gone, you own your house, your car, you're
choosing where you want to send your kids to school,
now you're saving money, you're investing money,
you're helping people out and so forth, so it starts
with a prosperous society, and out of that,
people are learning that wholeness when it comes
to health is you start with whole food.
You get the GMO poisons out of our systems,
and you go back to a natural polycultured growing
that grows healthy, whole foods.
And then you look at the political system, and if
there is a political system, it's only there to protect
individual rights and whatever we need to share in common.
And it's done all very openly and transparently.
And then you look at a media system, and media,
anybody could create a media system as they want
to do their corporate propaganda, that's fine,
that's available too, but people are getting sophisticated
enough to where they would spend their money on
getting independent input that was actually based
on the reality that was going on, because if we
have the information that we need, we can
make the wise decisions that we make.
So, I picture, actually, someone guided a meditation
once that I participated in, we went for a full hour,
we just imagined actually walking down the street.
You know, you're in a city or you're in a town
or you're going into people's houses, and virtually
everywhere you look, people are healthy, they're
experiencing being in loving relationship,
and connectedness with nature.
Can you image what that would actually feel like?
And so, I could go into lots of details, but I know
that that's possible and it's not even that far away.
I share your vision,
and thank you so much for your time.
I shouldn't say that, is there any one other thing
that was so beautiful, I was ready to just go
and daydream myself, is there any
final statement you'd like to make?
Well sometimes, I come across people who are
very resigned and discouraged, or they've
learned somewhat about the agenda that's going
on and they get afraid and just in shock,
and I really understand that, I've been through a lot
of that myself, but I guess my final message would
be to people, I know who you are, anyone
inhabiting a body on this planet was the champion
in a swimming race of between 60 and 600 million
sperm looking for an egg, so you were that champion.
So, whatever's happened to you that has had you
forget that kind of drive and integrity that you had,
I know each of you is a champion, and we've got
seven billion of those that are now getting access
to the tools to make the changes and remembering who we are.
Nature's desire to thrive expresses itself as truth,
it expresses itself as love, and in creative effectiveness,
and that's what we're moving into now.
So, to be able to offer a world like that to
our children is not only my dream,
I see it manifesting right now.
Here, here.
Thank you so much, Foster.
And thank you for the great work that you do.
I have enjoyed your programs ever since the inception,
and to be able to be a part of this community
that is getting such important work out and to have
this conversation with you is a real
delight, thanks for inviting me.
Thank you.
You may want to follow up this interview by going
to the thrivemovement.com, that's thrivemovement.com,
a stunning website, to purchase
a copy of the film, or rent it.
We bought one so that we could have
private showings with friends and family.
If you feel so inspired, you can create your own
Thrive discussion group and see where your
group's conversation leads you.
I feel we're definitely turning the corner and
light is beginning to shine in all around now.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(soft music)